[Edu-6159] langgraph template guide (#1491)
aziontech/docs: src/content/docs/en/pages/guides/marketplace/templates/langgraph-template.mdx

---
title: How to deploy the LangGraph AI Agent Boilerplate
description: The LangGraph AI Agent Boilerplate allows you to create an AI agent with LangGraph.
meta_tags: templates, guides, Azion Marketplace, LangGraph, artificial intelligence, AI agents
namespace: docs_guides_langgraph_ai_agent
permalink: /documentation/products/guides/langgraph-ai-agent-boilerplate/
---

import Tag from 'primevue/tag';

<Tag severity="info" client:only="vue">
Preview
</Tag>

> The **LangGraph AI Agent Boilerplate** contains the configurations for creating intelligent, real-time agents that can query and interact with data stored in an Azion EdgeSQL database, delivering optimized performance and reduced latency for your applications.

Reviewer: Nos guias do Cosmic, se formos padronizar, começa assim: The Azion CosmicJS Agency Website template...

> The **LangGraph AI Agent Boilerplate** contains the configurations for creating intelligent, real-time agents that can query and interact with data stored in an Azion's EdgeSQL database, delivering optimized performance and reduced latency for your applications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **LangGraph AI Agent Boilerplate** contains the configurations for creating intelligent, real-time agents that can query and interact with data stored in an Azion EdgeSQL database, delivering optimized performance and reduced latency for your applications.
```

This template is built to leverage Azion's robust edge computing infrastructure, ensuring scalability, security, and seamless integration with EdgeSQL. 

The deployment of this template will create two EdgeSQL databases: one for conversation history and another for reference documents. It also creates a backend application developed with LangGraph for document management and agent functionality, and a Vue-based frontend for user interaction.

> This template uses the version `3.3.4` of Vue.

Reviewer: Padronizei com o Stencil, que consta: This template uses Stencil version 4.22.2.

```suggestion
This template uses Vue version `3.3.4`.
```

    - Define your permissions and repository access as desired.
2. Select the **Git Scope** to work with.
3. Define a name for your agent.
    - By default, the names of the databases for the documents and the messages follow the patterns `<agent_name>-vectorstore` and `<agent_name>-messagestore` respectively.
    - Use a unique and easy-to-remember name. If the name has already been used, the platform returns an error message.
4. Insert your **OpenAI** API key. 
5. Click the **Deploy** button to start the deployment process.

During the deployment, you'll be able to follow the process through a window showing off the logs. When it's complete, the page shows information about the application and some options to continue your journey.

:::note
The link to the edge application allows you to see it on the browser. However, it takes a certain time to propagate and configure the application in Azion's edge locations. It may be necessary to wait a few minutes for the URL to be activated and for the application page to be effectively displayed in the browser.
:::

---

## Managing the template

### Setting up the database

> This template creates two databases, one for conversation history and another for reference documents. To start using your own documents, you must setup the appropriate database by following these steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This template creates two databases, one for conversation history and another for reference documents. To start using your own documents, you must set the appropriate database by following these steps:
```

1. Access the Github repository for the **backend application** created during the deployment. Its name will be similar to `<your-agent-name>-backend-agent`.
2. You must have a `.env` file with your environment variables in it. If you want to create a new one, it must follow the structure below:

```
AZION_TOKEN=
OPENAI_API_KEY=
OPENAI_MODEL=
EMBEDDING_MODEL=

LANGSMITH_API_KEY=
LANGCHAIN_PROJECT=
LANGCHAIN_TRACING_V2=false

MESSAGE_STORE_DB_NAME=
MESSAGE_STORE_TABLE_NAME=

VECTOR_STORE_DB_NAME=
VECTOR_STORE_TABLE_NAME=
```
Note that not all environment variables are required. Check details on the table below.

> | Environment Variable      | Description                                                                 | Required |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Environment variable      | Description                                                                 | Required |
```

| Environment variable      | Description                                                                 | Required |
|---------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|
| AZION_TOKEN               | The token for authenticating with Azion's platform. | Yes |
| OPENAI_API_KEY            | Your API key for accessing OpenAI services. | Yes |

> | OPENAI_MODEL              | The OpenAI model to be used for processing. If not set, defaults to `gpt-4o`. | No |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| OPENAI_MODEL              | The OpenAI model to be used for processing. If not set, it defaults to `gpt-4o`. | No |
```

> | EMBEDDING_MODEL           | The model used for generating embeddings. If not set, defaults to `text-embedding-3-small`. To use a different model, you must create a database with columns configured for the same model. | No |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| EMBEDDING_MODEL           | The model used for generating embeddings. If not set, it defaults to `text-embedding-3-small`. To use a different model, you must create a database with columns configured for the same model. | No |
```

> | EMBEDDING_MODEL           | The model used for generating embeddings. If not set, defaults to `text-embedding-3-small`. If you want to use a different model, you must create a database with columns configured for the same model.| No |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| EMBEDDING_MODEL           | The model used for generating embeddings. If not set, defaults to `text-embedding-3-small`. To use a different model, you must create a database with columns configured for the same model. | No |
```

| MESSAGE_STORE_DB_NAME     | The database name for storing conversation history messages. Default name: `<agent-name>-messagestore`. | Yes |
| MESSAGE_STORE_TABLE_NAME  | The table name within the messages database for storing the conversation history. Default name: `messages`. | Yes |
| VECTOR_STORE_DB_NAME      | The database name for storing your documents as vector embeddings. Default name: `<agent-name>-vectorstore`. | Yes |
| VECTOR_STORE_TABLE_NAME   | The table name within the documents database for storing embeddings. Default name: `<vectors`. | Yes |

:::tip
You can use the [Azion EdgeSQL Shell](/en/documentation/products/store/sql/edge-sql-shell-commands/) to interact with your databases. This shell provides a command-line interface that allows you to better visualize your databases and tables and execute SQL commands directly from the terminal.
:::

3. Open the file `setup/setup.ts`. This file contains the function that sets up the databases, and you can edit it to match your requirements:
  - You can change the names of environment variables to match your `.env` file if needed, or even pass some of them directly in the code.

>   - Edit the value of the constant `productDocs`. It uses by default the return of the function `getDocs`, which is configured in the boilerplate to process data from an example file. You can add your own documents file in the `setup` folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Edit the value of the constant `productDocs`. It uses by default the return of the function `getDocs`, which is configured in the boilerplate to process data from an example file. You can add your own document files to the `setup`  folder.
```

>     Using a static factory method:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Example using a static factory method:
```

>   - The template automatically creates the databases during the deployment, but you can configure the function to create your database according to the environment variables. There are two options available in the code for doing this. They are written as commentaries and you can uncomment the one you prefer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The template automatically creates the databases during the deployment, but you can configure the function to create your database according to the environment variables. There are two options available in the code for doing this. They are written as comments, and you can uncomment the one you prefer.
```

```ts
const vectorStore = await AzionVectorStore.createVectorStore(
     embeddingModel,
     {
       dbName: VECTOR_STORE_DB_NAME,
       tableName: VECTOR_STORE_TABLE_NAME
     },
     {
       columns,
       mode: "hybrid"
     }
   );
```

    Create instance and setup database separately:

 ```ts 
 const vectorStore = new AzionVectorStore(embeddingModel, {
     dbName: VECTOR_STORE_DB_NAME,
     tableName: VECTOR_STORE_TABLE_NAME
   });
   await vectorStore.setupDatabase({
     columns,
     mode: "hybrid"
   }); 
``` 

>     Uncomment the option you want to create your documents database.

Reviewer 2: anteriormente, fala de duas opções e esta frase, que parece um 3a, acabou ficando solta e confusa de entender.

> 3. Run the following command in the root directory of the project to run the function that sets up the database:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Run the following command in the root directory of the project to run the function that sets up the database:
```

> 4. Run the following command in the root directory of the project to run the function that sets up the database:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Run the following command in the project's root directory to set up the database:

```

> 4. Run the following command in the root directory of the project to run the function that sets up the database:

Author: ```suggestion
4. Run the following command in the project`s root directory to execute the function that sets up the database:
```

```bash
yarn setup
```

> The reference documents database is now set and ready for your application to access it. Read the [template documentation](https://github.com/aziontech/azion-samples/tree/3cf53a690ac7f40508bc020adcfc61ba553d0b2f/templates/typescript/azion-react-agent) to see more details about configuring the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The reference documents database is now set up and ready for your application to access it. Read the [template documentation](https://github.com/aziontech/azion-samples/tree/3cf53a690ac7f40508bc020adcfc61ba553d0b2f/templates/typescript/azion-react-agent) to see more details about configuring the project.
```

:::note

> The template also creates a database for storing the messages exchanged with the agent. By default, it will store messages for **14 days**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The template also creates a database for storing the messages exchanged with the agent. By default, it'll store messages for *14 days*.
```
